# Project Description
## World Big Problem
The humanity has been facing a plethora of challenges associated with the war against infectious diseases (e.g., Zika, MERS, and Ebola). Historically, such diseases developed very rapidly and caused numerous fatalities (e.g., more than 6 million deaths in 2016). It is not hard to presume that outbreaks of such diseases may recur in the future, and may kill several million people every year unless we take a measure to be aware of the situation as early as possible and be able to predict its spread. Comprehending such events and projecting future status are important tasks to win this battle.
## Background
Although continuous efforts have been applied to prevent or relieve the potential damages from such infectious diseases, it’s unquestionable that there are many persisting challenges yet to overcome. One approach we particularly address in this project is the situation awareness—perception and comprehension of the environment and events—and prediction of such epidemic outbreaks.In this field of study, traditional and/or ad-hoc models are used to focus on only one independent domain (e.g., prediction of virus mutation, analysis between economic situation and disease occurrence, and analysis for patient disease status). However, these independent models generally fail to provide a comprehensive, holistic, and integrated view of epidemic outbreaks. 
## Solution 
Comprehensive situation awareness for infectious disease can support decision making and help to hinder disease spread. In this project, we introduce a cloud computing platform focusing on a Collective Intelligence Multi-Model Integration Platform, called Bayes Cloud, in order to support situation awareness and prediction in the domain of infectious disease. 
## Innovative Solution
Bayes Cloud enables Subject-Matter Experts (SME) from around the world to participate in the development of predictive (or probabilistic) models by sharing their data/models, cooperating and collaborating with each other, and evaluating significant models affecting the world. This looks like the remarkable Wikipedia (www.wikipedia.org) or GitHub (github.com) in terms of collective intelligence, however Bayes Cloudfocuseson predictive models and real-time probabilistic reasoning on the cloud to address the requirements of users dealing with uncertainty.
## Creative Solution
Bayes Cloud uses Bayesian Network (BN), a knowledge representation model which is able to work gracefully with both expert/human knowledge and data-driven (a.k.a. machine learning) techniques, by applying probabilistic and statistical methods. This property—harmonious treatment of disparate sources—enables us to integrate distinct models into one. Model integration can be viewed as a process for merging several models in order to obtain a third model. The resulting model shall embody the information from the original models, and also support joint reasoning unattainable solely by the individual models. For example, analysis of global epidemics requires integration of expert knowledge, multiple different data, and models, which are originated from multiple independent researchers. If these models can be integrated as one model, it can be used to efficiently and effectively analyze the epidemic situation in terms of the holistic view that generates synergy. 
For this, Bayes Cloud provides an intuitive web user interface (accessible from a web browser) and an interoperable web service (REST), so that the users can freely access and use the service in various applications or data-analysis tools, like the Jupyter Notebook (jupyter.org).
## Application 
Technically, Bayes Cloud and BNs are domain-independent, so this solution can be applied in various case studies. For example, in this project, we introduce how to use Bayes Cloud for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) to support epidemic situation awareness. Various types of EVD epidemiological analysis have been independently researched by multiple researchers to understand characteristics of EVD, predict dynamics of EVD, and identify optimal control strategies to decelerate the EVD spread. We developed each model (e.g., patient model, geospatial model, and regional virus spread model) according to these research results and performed model integration to demonstrate and produce an advanced integrated EVD BN model. Using the integrated model, holistic situational awareness regarding EVD is accomplished to support decision makers in choosing a proper treatment among all possible options. For example, Bayes Cloud containing the integrated model can respond to the queries such as “If five Ebola patients occur in the Guinea Macenta area, how many patients will occur next week and how many patients will occur in the other areas?”.

This is just the first step. The initial model will expand and become more accurate as various experts from around the world take part. So we believe we will have the big solution addressing the big problem for our next generation. 
